concept.md, before:

Incremental idle game about exploration and discovery in an endless desert

Ideas:
  - Basic resources: water, reeds, clay, and sand.
  - Foods: Grain, lentils, figs, dates, fish, bread, beer, onions, garlic, cheese, butter, spices.
  - Animals: Oxen, hens, fish, scarabs (for dye), cats.
  - Manufacturing: Press reeds into papyrus, roofing, or linen; smelt sand into glass lenses or bottles; form clay into bricks or jars.
  - Trading system with shifting prices to acquire iron, copper, various coins, ivory, wine, silk, wool, jade, tea, porcelain, honey, and gunpowder.
  - Research system that uses lenses to break down any item into concepts, ties together concepts into a completed theory. Research categories: philosophy (general knowledge), biology (farming), zoology (ranching), anthropology (music, entertainment, culture), physics (crafting), astrology (new exploration areas), chemistry (crafting), exaltation (mysteriously enhancing humans), and mysticism (contact with beings from another plane).
  - Find artifacts by sending out teams of explorers.
  - Groups lead by a named character with various traits that can be persuaded to stay in your settlement by using up influence or gifts.
  - Group leaders have a favorite food, favorite activity, and a secret wish. Fulfilling the secret wish gives a permanent boost to happiness.
  - Group leaders can equip clothing, a pack (that goes on the back), and a tool. These can affect their quantity of products created, quality of products created, amount of resources consumed when creating a product, bonus when entertaining the town, speed when traveling to an exploration site, ability to disarm traps when exploring, and resilience to damage when exploring.
  - Group-specific happiness influenced by quality of house; kind and quality of food, drink, clothing, presence of cats, and treasure; desirability of job. Happiness has a large effect on work performance, is displayed prominently, and can lead to special events.
  - Groups can be assigned to a specific building, which will dramatically increase the output of the building. Otherwise buildings are run by generic citizens (if the building has that capability). Buildings that produce artisan goods or an entertainment bonus can't be run by citizens.
  - Sunset gradient: #f58f7d @ 0, #6a41b4 @ 67, #0034aa @ 100
  - Chemistry research for Perfumery, need original perfume to be able to duplicate.
  - Logistics research that increases building output if located next to the source of its consumption resources.
  - Logistics research that increases output if group leader lives next to where he/she is working.
  - Product quality:
    - Products can have something akin to a critical success that produces a "quality" version of the resource.
    - A double-critical is also possible: 110% change of quality product would = 90% chance of "quality" and 10% change of "exquisite".
    - A "quality" product is worth 10x the value of a normal product, and has the sentence "The quality is impressive." added to the end of the description.
    - An "exquisite" product is worth 100x the vault of a normal product, and has "The quality is exquisite; this is fit for royalty!" added to the end of the description.
  - Exploring requires a specific set of provisions: initially this just includes food and drink, but later can include things like rope, medicine, shovels, camels, and special clothing.
  - Rendering extracts from various materials for perfumery/other uses
    - Rendering occurs at a crucible. The user can create a repeating pattern of ingredients, and each has set duration to render.
    - Rendering many things in a short time increases the crucible heat from gentle -> moderate -> strong -> incinerating, where a higher heat can produce a higher quality extract but has a higher chance of destroying the ingredient.
    -  Strong heat has the best ratio, and while incinerating technically has a higher chance to return a quality extract, it is almost certain to destroy the item.
    -  Perfumes/other products are created by account-specific combinations of extracts.
    -  Extract types include: Sweet, Sour, Bitter, Brackish, Savory, Spicy, Cooling, Herbal, Earthy, Fungal, Rich, Airy
  - Somewhat hidden overall goal is to find the secret of undoing death, the quest for which cannot be tainted by killing. There could be a previous explorer (or duo?) who searched for the secret, and an elusive beast that has to willingly give you its eye.
  - Temporary settlements can be made in the Dreaming, last 24 hours (?) before evaporating and allowing the player to claim one single resource.
    - These can have unusual resources, such as iron or wood.
    - They can also be unusually small or large.
    - Some is way to apply extreme, but selective, benefits. These could include increasing dream build time x 1000, increasing one resource production x 100 (but can't claim that resource), randomizing the output from a certain building, etc.

Where is the bottleneck?
  - Creation of basic resources should be based on buildings (rather than working groups), with specialty goods for limited use or trade created by groups.
  - It should be relatively easy to sustain an existing settlement, and easy to expand by adding buildings, but without much value to be gained by stockpiling huge numbers of basic resources. Adding new groups should be difficult, and trading should have relatively low maximum numbers of resources, so the player cannot succeed by trading huge quantities of sand, for example.
  - Advanced products should require a mix of intermediate resources that come from the town and resources that have to be traded for.

Researches (see spredsheet):
- Start with:
  - Philosophy
    - Analysis
    - Biology
      - Lentil Farming
      - Reed Trenching
    - Physics
      - Hut Construction
      - Cistern Water Storage
      - Clay Digging
- Philosophy
  - Analysis: Break down new item to gain knowledge
  - Biology
    - Lentil Farming
      - Simplified Lentil Farming
    - Reed Growth
  - Zoology
  - Anthropology
    - Music
    - Theatre
    - Festivals
  - Physics
    - Basic Construction
    - Water Storage
    - Clay Excavation
    - Sand Excavation
    - Water Condensation
  - Chemistry
    - Cooking
    - Clay Seals: Decreased water usage when cooking
  - Astrology
  - Exaltation
    - Questline around magic lamp with Djinn inside
  - Mysticism

Research options:
  - Scholarship:
    - Use knowledge
    - Use any material
    - Use water
    - Use lentils + water
    - Use any field notes
  - General:
    - Take a break: get new options
    - Reconsider progress: go back one step in exchange for twice value in knowledge (min 10)
    - Use knowledge for an extra option for remainder of research
    - Use knowledge (proportional)
    - Use high knowledge to produce field notes
    - Use high knowledge + field notes to reveal hidden research
    - Use food (proportional)
    - Use coffee
  - Biology
    - Use lentils
    - Use seeds
    - Use water
    - Use any plant
    - Use sand
    - Use clay
    - Use field notes on landscape
    - Use field notes on plants
    - Use field notes on animals

Research option flow:
  - Pull the options specific to the research, then the options for its category and difficulty
  - Remove the options that have already been used as part of this research
  - Look at the number of remaining steps: if there are <= steps as research-specific options, only choose from those
  - If there are >, choose from any in the pool
  - If there are no options remaining in the pool, restore all previously used options

Option cost application:
  - If specificity is exact, deduct material at once
  - If specificity is tag or category, open resource selection modal
  - Check if all costs have been fulfilled, if so mark research completed and change component to "Finished!"
  - If not, add research option paid (research option name -> cost type) cost object to research options deck

Resource selection:
  - Only show matching resources, sorted with highest quantity first
  - If only one matching resource exists, have it auto-selected
  - Can manually enter in quantity after selecting, but auto-fills to cost quantity

Leaders:
  - Favorite activity: exploration, Secret wish: to learn what happened to their mother (exploration/mysticism quests)
  - Favorite activity: exploration, Secret wish: to see the legendary crystal sea
  - Favorite activity: animal husbandry, Secret wish: to own a cat
  - Favorite activity: animal husbandry, Secret wish: to raise a sun ox
  - Favorite activity: entertainment, Secret wish: to play music at a year's end festival
  - Favorite activity: entertainment, Secret wish: to fly [via transformation into a bird]
  - Favorite activity: cooking, Secret wish: to eat every kind of dish
  - Favorite activity: cooking, Secret wish: to live in the same city as [other leader]
  - Favorite activity: crafting, Secret wish: to weave an exquisite tapestry
  - Favorite activity: crafting, Secret wish: to wear a robe of golden thread

Caches:
  - Give random amounts of relics, which are resources used to construct cosmetics
  - After creating a new file an "Heirloom Cache" is available for super cheap ($0.50?)
  - Otherwise a "Mysterious Cache" is available every week for $1 and a "Grand Cache" is available every month for $5. Grand Caches include a clue that leads to a unique mysticism research and series of explorations that result in more relics

Research:
  - Study action, inspect an item that has not been studied before to gain knowledge
  - Analyse action, Gain knowledge by destroying a resource and studying its parts
  - Field notes are brought back by explorers, even when an exploration fails. There are also ways of gathering field notes about the town itself. Example field notes are "Notes on the Western Stars", "Notes on the Waning Moon", "Notes on Flowing Water", "Notes on Caves Beneath the Sand", etc.
  - Research difficulty works as follows:
    - Easiest difficulty uses very small amounts of knowledge, water, and lentils
    - Easy difficulty uses small amounts of knowledge water, lentils, clay, sand, wood, and reeds
    - Moderate difficulty uses early refined materials such as glass and bricks, more advanced dishes, as well as papyrus and ink
    - Higher difficulty uses field notes and higher refined materials
    - High difficulty uses rarer field notes, high-quality dishes complex refined materials, and rarer exploration rewards

Traders:
  - Individual trader ideas:
    - European traders that give metals
    - Scholarly trader that receives knowledge and parchment
    - Explorering trader that receives food, drink, and exploration supplies
    - "Dragon" trader that receives precious metals and jewels
  - Very early traders: give seeds, wood, sand, clay; receive water, lentils, reeds
  - Early traders
  - Middle traders: give iron, gold; receive glass

Tabs:
  - Map, showing locations of each building and the river running through the middle
  - Buildings, with an expandable list of buildings with the resources consumed/produced by each
    - Section headers with the category of building (Service?, Agriculture, Artisan???)
    - Resources consumed/rate (vertically scrolling if more than one)
    - Resources produced/rate
    - Production % and issue if less than 100%
  - Resources, with a list of all items and their current production rate
  - Leaders, with a list of each team and their current activity
  - Research, with current research (if active) and research options (if not active)
    - Current activity button/display, when clicked gives options:
      - Study: Inspect an item that has not been studied before to gain knowledge
      - Analyse: Gain knowledge by destroying a resource and studying its parts
    - Research map
  - Exploration, with current expedition (if active) and expedition options (if not active)
  - The Dreaming, with a map for each of the temporary settlements made in The Dreaming

Useful icons:
  Entypo: 500px (infinity), address (post), bell, flower, lab-flask, mask,
    round-brush, swarm (bee)
  Fontawesome: leaf, bolt, building-o, beer, medkit, paw, diamond, snowflake
  Fontawesome5: anchor, ankh, archway, bahai, book-dead, broom, burn, campground, cat,
    carrot, cheese, chess, church, cloud, coins, crow, crown, dharmachakra, dice,
    disease, dna, dog, dove, dragon, drum, dungeon, egg, fan, fist, frog,
    gopuram (building), guitar, hamsa, hand, hat-wizard, hippo, holly-berry, horse,
    hospital, hotel, icicles, igloo, kaaba (building), kiwi-bird, landmark (building),
    lemon, meteor, monument, mortar-pestle, mug, om, otter, pastafarianism, pepper,
    spa, stroopwafel, theater, torii-gate, vihara (building)

Time cycle:
  - The desert transitions from day to night over the course of an hour.
  - Morning is from :00 - :15, day from :15 - :30, evening from :30 - :45, and night from :45 - :00
  - Night is from :50 - :05, morning from :05 - :20, day from :20 - :35, evening from :35 - :50.
  - Twenty four days consitute a month, and twenty eight to thirty one days consistute a year.

Starting game state:
  - Buildings: one trading post, one hut, one cistern, one lentil field

Example game state:
  - Buildings: one town center, four houses, one cistern, one lentil field, two grain field, one oxen pasture, one fish pond, three reed deltas, one clay pit, two sand pits, one dairy, three kitchens, two drying yards, one furnace, one glassblower, one amphitheatre
  - Initial products are: 110 water, 11 lentils, 11 grain, 11 oxen, 11 fish, 33 reeds, 11 clay, 22 sand
  - Intermediate consumption is: 10 water -> 11 lentils, 20 water -> 22 grain, 30 water + 10 grain -> 11 oxen, 10 water -> 11 fish, 2 oxen + 5 water -> 16 cheese, 10 lentils + 2 water + 2 reeds -> 11 lentil soup, 10 grain + 2 water + 2 reeds -> 11 bread, 10 fish + 2 reeds -> 11 baked fish, 10 reeds -> 11 roofing, 10 reeds -> 11 papyrus, 10 clay -> 11 bricks, 10 sand + 2 reeds -> 11 glass, 10 glass + 2 reeds -> 16 lenses
  - Final products are -19 water, 1 lentils, 2 grain, 9 oxen, 1 fish, 3 reeds, 1 clay, 12 sand, 6 cheese, 1 lentil soup, 1 bread, 1 baked fish, 11 papyrus, 11 roofing, 11 clay bricks, 1 glass, 16 lenses
  - Four groups are eating cheese, lentil soup, bread, baked fish, and drinking water; one exploring, one cheese making, one lens crafting, one playing music.

Calculating timestep:
  - "Hourglass" class used to calculate tick related events
  - Production/consumption always calculated using a diff between two timestamps
  - P/C sets for buildings have a "tier" which is determined by the complexity of the resources they're consuming, one higher than the highest tiered resource that went into its production. For example, a cistern has a tier of 0 because it consumes nothing to produce water. Bread has a tier of 2, because it consumes water (tier 0, ignored) and grain (tier 1, increased by 1)
  - The effective rates of all buildings are calculated, relative to the resources available, and this rate is stored and used until one or more buildings are changed. Lower tiered products are given priority. For example, if there was not enough water to fulfill all buildings, a kitchen could be producing bread at 100% capacity but another kitchen could only be producing honeyed bread at 67% capacity (assuming 2/min water was available out of 3/min water requirement)
  - When calculating larger timestamp durations (>10 seconds), if one or more resources have a negative production the hourglass will calculate what % of the diff the building can operate before its resource is exhausted, and this will be set as the end of the end of the calculation. Another calculation will be performed with the remainder of the time, treating the stockpile of the resource as exhausted

Beginning of game:
  - Some messages to introduce setting
  - Start with no tabs, just a single button that says "Look around". Clicking this displays another introductory message, unlocks the "Resources" and "Buildings" tabs, and gives a small quantity of water, lentils, seeds, clay, and sand
  - Inside the "Buildings" tab have "Broken cistern", "Decaying shack", "Ruined huts", "Fallow field", "Shattered gate", and "Abandoned market"
  - Second action is in the "Build" button: "Repair cistern", which creates the cistern building and gives a large amount of water
  - Third action: "Refurbish housing", which creates one hut and the study, which unlocks the "Research" tab
  - Fourth action: "Restore field", which creates one lentil field
  - Event where one leader moves in and unlocks the "Leaders" tab
  - Action after researching "Trading": "Revamp market" which opens the "Trading" tab
  - Action after researching "Exploration" "Recreate gate" which opens the "Exploration" tab

Commands:
USE `endless_desert`;
DELETE FROM `buildings`;
DELETE FROM `research_option_decks`;
DELETE FROM `research_status`;
DELETE FROM `timers`;
DELETE FROM `trading_status`;
DELETE FROM `vault`;

Commit message:

First person text to second person

concept.md, after:

Incremental idle game about exploration and discovery in an endless desert

Ideas:
  - Basic resources: water, reeds, clay, and sand.
  - Foods: Grain, lentils, figs, dates, fish, bread, beer, onions, garlic, cheese, butter, spices.
  - Animals: Oxen, hens, fish, scarabs (for dye), cats.
  - Manufacturing: Press reeds into papyrus, roofing, or linen; smelt sand into glass lenses or bottles; form clay into bricks or jars.
  - Trading system with shifting prices to acquire iron, copper, various coins, ivory, wine, silk, wool, jade, tea, porcelain, honey, and gunpowder.
  - Research system that uses lenses to break down any item into concepts, ties together concepts into a completed theory. Research categories: philosophy (general knowledge), biology (farming), zoology (ranching), anthropology (music, entertainment, culture), physics (crafting), astrology (new exploration areas), chemistry (crafting), exaltation (mysteriously enhancing humans), and mysticism (contact with beings from another plane).
  - Find artifacts by sending out teams of explorers.
  - Groups lead by a named character with various traits that can be persuaded to stay in your settlement by using up influence or gifts.
  - Group leaders have a favorite food, favorite activity, and a secret wish. Fulfilling the secret wish gives a permanent boost to happiness.
  - Group leaders can equip clothing, a pack (that goes on the back), and a tool. These can affect their quantity of products created, quality of products created, amount of resources consumed when creating a product, bonus when entertaining the town, speed when traveling to an exploration site, ability to disarm traps when exploring, and resilience to damage when exploring.
  - Group-specific happiness influenced by quality of house; kind and quality of food, drink, clothing, presence of cats, and treasure; desirability of job. Happiness has a large effect on work performance, is displayed prominently, and can lead to special events.
  - Groups can be assigned to a specific building, which will dramatically increase the output of the building. Otherwise buildings are run by generic citizens (if the building has that capability). Buildings that produce artisan goods or an entertainment bonus can't be run by citizens.
  - Sunset gradient: #f58f7d @ 0, #6a41b4 @ 67, #0034aa @ 100
  - Chemistry research for Perfumery, need original perfume to be able to duplicate.
  - Logistics research that increases building output if located next to the source of its consumption resources.
  - Logistics research that increases output if group leader lives next to where he/she is working.
  - Product quality:
    - Products can have something akin to a critical success that produces a "quality" version of the resource.
    - A double-critical is also possible: 110% change of quality product would = 90% chance of "quality" and 10% change of "exquisite".
    - A "quality" product is worth 10x the value of a normal product, and has the sentence "The quality is impressive." added to the end of the description.
    - An "exquisite" product is worth 100x the vault of a normal product, and has "The quality is exquisite; this is fit for royalty!" added to the end of the description.
  - Exploring requires a specific set of provisions: initially this just includes food and drink, but later can include things like rope, medicine, shovels, camels, and special clothing.
  - Rendering extracts from various materials for perfumery/other uses
    - Rendering occurs at a crucible. The user can create a repeating pattern of ingredients, and each has set duration to render.
    - Rendering many things in a short time increases the crucible heat from gentle -> moderate -> strong -> incinerating, where a higher heat can produce a higher quality extract but has a higher chance of destroying the ingredient.
    -  Strong heat has the best ratio, and while incinerating technically has a higher chance to return a quality extract, it is almost certain to destroy the item.
    -  Perfumes/other products are created by account-specific combinations of extracts.
    -  Extract types include: Sweet, Sour, Bitter, Brackish, Savory, Spicy, Cooling, Herbal, Earthy, Fungal, Rich, Airy
  - Somewhat hidden overall goal is to find the secret of undoing death, the quest for which cannot be tainted by killing. There could be a previous explorer (or duo?) who searched for the secret, and an elusive beast that has to willingly give you its eye.
  - Temporary settlements can be made in the Dreaming, last 24 hours (?) before evaporating and allowing the player to claim one single resource.
    - These can have unusual resources, such as iron or wood.
    - They can also be unusually small or large.
    - Some is way to apply extreme, but selective, benefits. These could include increasing dream build time x 1000, increasing one resource production x 100 (but can't claim that resource), randomizing the output from a certain building, etc.

Where is the bottleneck?
  - Creation of basic resources should be based on buildings (rather than working groups), with specialty goods for limited use or trade created by groups.
  - It should be relatively easy to sustain an existing settlement, and easy to expand by adding buildings, but without much value to be gained by stockpiling huge numbers of basic resources. Adding new groups should be difficult, and trading should have relatively low maximum numbers of resources, so the player cannot succeed by trading huge quantities of sand, for example.
  - Advanced products should require a mix of intermediate resources that come from the town and resources that have to be traded for.

Researches (see spredsheet):
- Start with:
  - Philosophy
    - Analysis
    - Biology
      - Lentil Farming
      - Reed Trenching
    - Physics
      - Hut Construction
      - Cistern Water Storage
      - Clay Digging
- Philosophy
  - Analysis: Break down new item to gain knowledge
  - Biology
    - Lentil Farming
      - Simplified Lentil Farming
    - Reed Growth
  - Zoology
  - Anthropology
    - Music
    - Theatre
    - Festivals
  - Physics
    - Basic Construction
    - Water Storage
    - Clay Excavation
    - Sand Excavation
    - Water Condensation
  - Chemistry
    - Cooking
    - Clay Seals: Decreased water usage when cooking
  - Astrology
  - Exaltation
    - Questline around magic lamp with Djinn inside
  - Mysticism

Research options:
  - Scholarship:
    - Use knowledge
    - Use any material
    - Use water
    - Use lentils + water
    - Use any field notes
  - General:
    - Take a break: get new options
    - Reconsider progress: go back one step in exchange for twice value in knowledge (min 10)
    - Use knowledge for an extra option for remainder of research
    - Use knowledge (proportional)
    - Use high knowledge to produce field notes
    - Use high knowledge + field notes to reveal hidden research
    - Use food (proportional)
    - Use coffee
  - Biology
    - Use lentils
    - Use seeds
    - Use water
    - Use any plant
    - Use sand
    - Use clay
    - Use field notes on landscape
    - Use field notes on plants
    - Use field notes on animals

Research option flow:
  - Pull the options specific to the research, then the options for its category and difficulty
  - Remove the options that have already been used as part of this research
  - Look at the number of remaining steps: if there are <= steps as research-specific options, only choose from those
  - If there are >, choose from any in the pool
  - If there are no options remaining in the pool, restore all previously used options

Option cost application:
  - If specificity is exact, deduct material at once
  - If specificity is tag or category, open resource selection modal
  - Check if all costs have been fulfilled, if so mark research completed and change component to "Finished!"
  - If not, add research option paid (research option name -> cost type) cost object to research options deck

Resource selection:
  - Only show matching resources, sorted with highest quantity first
  - If only one matching resource exists, have it auto-selected
  - Can manually enter in quantity after selecting, but auto-fills to cost quantity

Leaders:
  - Favorite activity: exploration, Secret wish: to learn what happened to their mother (exploration/mysticism quests)
  - Favorite activity: exploration, Secret wish: to see the legendary crystal sea
  - Favorite activity: animal husbandry, Secret wish: to own a cat
  - Favorite activity: animal husbandry, Secret wish: to raise a sun ox
  - Favorite activity: entertainment, Secret wish: to play music at a year's end festival
  - Favorite activity: entertainment, Secret wish: to fly [via transformation into a bird]
  - Favorite activity: cooking, Secret wish: to eat every kind of dish
  - Favorite activity: cooking, Secret wish: to live in the same city as [other leader]
  - Favorite activity: crafting, Secret wish: to weave an exquisite tapestry
  - Favorite activity: crafting, Secret wish: to wear a robe of golden thread
  - Old friend of player, first leader but then disappears
  - Old friend's second in command

Caches:
  - Give random amounts of relics, which are resources used to construct cosmetics
  - After creating a new file an "Heirloom Cache" is available for super cheap ($0.50?)
  - Otherwise a "Mysterious Cache" is available every week for $1 and a "Grand Cache" is available every month for $5. Grand Caches include a clue that leads to a unique mysticism research and series of explorations that result in more relics

Research:
  - Study action, inspect an item that has not been studied before to gain knowledge
  - Analyse action, Gain knowledge by destroying a resource and studying its parts
  - Field notes are brought back by explorers, even when an exploration fails. There are also ways of gathering field notes about the town itself. Example field notes are "Notes on the Western Stars", "Notes on the Waning Moon", "Notes on Flowing Water", "Notes on Caves Beneath the Sand", etc.
  - Research difficulty works as follows:
    - Easiest difficulty uses very small amounts of knowledge, water, and lentils
    - Easy difficulty uses small amounts of knowledge water, lentils, clay, sand, wood, and reeds
    - Moderate difficulty uses early refined materials such as glass and bricks, more advanced dishes, as well as papyrus and ink
    - Higher difficulty uses field notes and higher refined materials
    - High difficulty uses rarer field notes, high-quality dishes complex refined materials, and rarer exploration rewards

Traders:
  - Individual trader ideas:
    - European traders that give metals
    - Scholarly trader that receives knowledge and parchment
    - Explorering trader that receives food, drink, and exploration supplies
    - "Dragon" trader that receives precious metals and jewels
  - Very early traders: give seeds, wood, sand, clay; receive water, lentils, reeds
  - Early traders
  - Middle traders: give iron, gold; receive glass

Tabs:
  - Map, showing locations of each building and the river running through the middle
  - Buildings, with an expandable list of buildings with the resources consumed/produced by each
    - Section headers with the category of building (Service?, Agriculture, Artisan???)
    - Resources consumed/rate (vertically scrolling if more than one)
    - Resources produced/rate
    - Production % and issue if less than 100%
  - Resources, with a list of all items and their current production rate
  - Leaders, with a list of each team and their current activity
  - Research, with current research (if active) and research options (if not active)
    - Current activity button/display, when clicked gives options:
      - Study: Inspect an item that has not been studied before to gain knowledge
      - Analyse: Gain knowledge by destroying a resource and studying its parts
    - Research map
  - Exploration, with current expedition (if active) and expedition options (if not active)
  - The Dreaming, with a map for each of the temporary settlements made in The Dreaming

Useful icons:
  Entypo: 500px (infinity), address (post), bell, flower, lab-flask, mask,
    round-brush, swarm (bee)
  Fontawesome: leaf, bolt, building-o, beer, medkit, paw, diamond, snowflake
  Fontawesome5: anchor, ankh, archway, bahai, book-dead, broom, burn, campground, cat,
    carrot, cheese, chess, church, cloud, coins, crow, crown, dharmachakra, dice,
    disease, dna, dog, dove, dragon, drum, dungeon, egg, fan, fist, frog,
    gopuram (building), guitar, hamsa, hand, hat-wizard, hippo, holly-berry, horse,
    hospital, hotel, icicles, igloo, kaaba (building), kiwi-bird, landmark (building),
    lemon, meteor, monument, mortar-pestle, mug, om, otter, pastafarianism, pepper,
    spa, stroopwafel, theater, torii-gate, vihara (building)

Time cycle:
  - The desert transitions from day to night over the course of an hour.
  - Morning is from :00 - :15, day from :15 - :30, evening from :30 - :45, and night from :45 - :00
  - Night is from :50 - :05, morning from :05 - :20, day from :20 - :35, evening from :35 - :50.
  - Twenty four days consitute a month, and twenty eight to thirty one days consistute a year.

Starting game state:
  - Buildings: one trading post, one hut, one cistern, one lentil field

Example game state:
  - Buildings: one town center, four houses, one cistern, one lentil field, two grain field, one oxen pasture, one fish pond, three reed deltas, one clay pit, two sand pits, one dairy, three kitchens, two drying yards, one furnace, one glassblower, one amphitheatre
  - Initial products are: 110 water, 11 lentils, 11 grain, 11 oxen, 11 fish, 33 reeds, 11 clay, 22 sand
  - Intermediate consumption is: 10 water -> 11 lentils, 20 water -> 22 grain, 30 water + 10 grain -> 11 oxen, 10 water -> 11 fish, 2 oxen + 5 water -> 16 cheese, 10 lentils + 2 water + 2 reeds -> 11 lentil soup, 10 grain + 2 water + 2 reeds -> 11 bread, 10 fish + 2 reeds -> 11 baked fish, 10 reeds -> 11 roofing, 10 reeds -> 11 papyrus, 10 clay -> 11 bricks, 10 sand + 2 reeds -> 11 glass, 10 glass + 2 reeds -> 16 lenses
  - Final products are -19 water, 1 lentils, 2 grain, 9 oxen, 1 fish, 3 reeds, 1 clay, 12 sand, 6 cheese, 1 lentil soup, 1 bread, 1 baked fish, 11 papyrus, 11 roofing, 11 clay bricks, 1 glass, 16 lenses
  - Four groups are eating cheese, lentil soup, bread, baked fish, and drinking water; one exploring, one cheese making, one lens crafting, one playing music.

Calculating timestep:
  - "Hourglass" class used to calculate tick related events
  - Production/consumption always calculated using a diff between two timestamps
  - P/C sets for buildings have a "tier" which is determined by the complexity of the resources they're consuming, one higher than the highest tiered resource that went into its production. For example, a cistern has a tier of 0 because it consumes nothing to produce water. Bread has a tier of 2, because it consumes water (tier 0, ignored) and grain (tier 1, increased by 1)
  - The effective rates of all buildings are calculated, relative to the resources available, and this rate is stored and used until one or more buildings are changed. Lower tiered products are given priority. For example, if there was not enough water to fulfill all buildings, a kitchen could be producing bread at 100% capacity but another kitchen could only be producing honeyed bread at 67% capacity (assuming 2/min water was available out of 3/min water requirement)
  - When calculating larger timestamp durations (>10 seconds), if one or more resources have a negative production the hourglass will calculate what % of the diff the building can operate before its resource is exhausted, and this will be set as the end of the end of the calculation. Another calculation will be performed with the remainder of the time, treating the stockpile of the resource as exhausted

Beginning of game:
  - Some messages to introduce setting
    - "Rumors say anything can be found in the desert: ancient knowledge, buried jade, even a path back from the land of the dead. But perhaps it was foolish to run towards its center on your own."
    - "Your food and water are long gone, your breath gasping and your steps slow, when you find a ruined village."
  - Start with no tabs, just a single button that says "Look around". Clicking this displays another introductory message, unlocks the "Resources" and "Buildings" tabs, and gives a small quantity of water, lentils, seeds, clay, and sand
    - "There are signs of conflict here: a shattered gate, broken doors, and ransacked huts. But there aren't any bodies. Maybe the villagers fled as the raiders approached. You find some meager leavings in the rubble."
  - Inside the "Buildings" tab have "Broken cistern", "Decaying shack", "Ruined huts", "Fallow field", "Shattered gate", and "Abandoned market"
  - Second action is in the "Build" button: "Repair cistern", which creates the cistern building and gives a large amount of water
  - Third action: "Refurbish housing", which creates one hut and the study, which unlocks the "Research" tab
  - Fourth action: "Restore field", which creates one lentil field
  - Event where one leader moves in and unlocks the "Leaders" tab
  - Action after researching "Trading": "Revamp market" which opens the "Trading" tab
  - Action after researching "Exploration" "Recreate gate" which opens the "Exploration" tab

Commands:
USE `endless_desert`;
DELETE FROM `buildings`;
DELETE FROM `research_option_decks`;
DELETE FROM `research_status`;
DELETE FROM `timers`;
DELETE FROM `trading_status`;
DELETE FROM `vault`;
